dozens of premature babies in gaza's
largest hospital have been given just a
few more hours to live they've been
transferred within the alifa facility to
an area where electricity is still
available but they're not in incubators
because oxygen supplies have run out all
hospitals in Gaza City are out of
service only able to offer basic first
aid the two largest are surrounded by
Israeli forces and have been repeatedly
attacked
let's get the very latest with hany mmud
who is live for us in hunis on the
southern part of the Gaza Strip hany
good to see you there have been more
overnight strikes on the North and the
South of the Gaza Strip can you bring us
up to
date yes well air strikes continue to
destroy more homes more residential
homes and more residential blocks
destroying more of the public facilities
and and and properties for people in the
southern part and in in the Central and
Gaza City and the north uh just
overnight strikes targeted the city of
khun the Eastern line of City KH Unis
killing uh more than 10 people and
destroying more of residential homes uh
the worst of those air strikes of of
late of early evening hours of of
yesterday was in jabalia refugee camp um
near near a very populated densely
populated neighborhood that uh houses an
inner mural Center Sport Center for uh
for the community right there was
completely destroyed uh and the vicinity
of the area was also uh destroyed and
severely damaged killing
31 uh people right right away right
after uh the air strike with so many
people are still uh under under the
rebels in Gaza City and around the
vicinity of Ali Baptist Hospital a fire
belt was created in that area destroying
much of the infrastructure and all the
roads leading to the hospital and
leaving the hospital in a complete
blackout at its solar solar panel and
solar power system was completely
destroyed and the hospital uh it was
already running on a very low capacity
in terms of the service provide in terms
of the uh the power capacity it has but
now without those solar panels the
hospital been reduced to uh less than a
a a 5% of its its operations um but the
the these whole thing are happening
while at the same time people are still
stranded in Gaza and and more of them
are coming to the southern part but
they're equally equally in danger
equally at risk of during of of losing
their life as air strike uh
indiscriminately targeting every corner
of the Gaza Strip from the city of Bon
in the north all the way to RAF City in
the southern part an area that is
supposed to be safe but not uh as as
these Relentless air strike continue uh
to fall on them and Hy can you tell us a
bit more about the condition of the
people who are in the South those who
have managed to evacuate from northern
Gaza we hear millions of people there
displaced living in in tiny little camps
uh lack of water and food how are they
surviving well the the situations in in
the southern part this is at least where
we at and we we witness it on on daily
basis we see that the desperate needs of
people who evacuated to the hospital or
to honor what designated uh shelters uh
uh there is a depletion of everything of
of basic needs of of water of a bread of
basic survival items and for example if
we take uh hona school as an example as
evacuation Center these are schools they
are not they're not designed they're not
meant to be shelters uh to uh
accommodate people in times of War so if
we think of the sanitation system of the
of the hygiene facilities inside they
are designed for students just to run
couple hours a day for school for
students and their time of school and
that's it but when you end up with
thousand of people in inside these uh
inside these schools we're talking about
three four families in every classroom
that's a total of 50 and sometimes 70
people inside one classroom and and just
run that on the the the rest of the of
of the school you end up with thousand
of people in such a small area there
already reports from the hospital about
the spread of infectious disease and and
here atas hospital to start seeing a new
trend of those disease as people uh are
inside these schools they don't have a
proper sanitation uh system they don't
have or not they don't have because
whatever left of the of the hygiene
facilities have been completely uh
damaged there is no access to to clean
drinking uh water as most of the water
they drink is contaminated in addition
the the the shortage of medical supplies
and you get sick you're likely to
depends on your immun immune system
because there is no medicine available
uh whatsoever so the the situations are
are very difficult and now people are
are are fighting at two fronts it's just
the war that is Raging in Gaza and the
North and the air strikes continue to
pound him but at the same time there is
a new war going on which is the healthy
crisis inside these schools as people
are trying to stay as as healthy as they
can despite the fact there is shortage
of everything no food no water uh uh no
medicine no survival items it's very
difficult at all level at this point
thank you so much for that update Han
Mahmud reporting for us there from kanun
inside the Gaza
Strip